RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.5.2 (22 November 2014)
-------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.5.2 is a minor update incorporating the changes described
below.

- When running the whole pipeline, a folder may be specified to which
all intermediate files are written. These files are deleted after the
hicup_deduplicator script has terminated

- FASTQ format now specified differently, valid options are:
Sanger, Solexa_Illumina_1.0, Illumina_1.3 or Illumina_1.5

- All configuration files kept in the 'config_files' folder

- hicup_digester may be passed lowercase characters denoting the 
restriction enzyme recognition site

- Pipeline no longer terminates if SAM Tools in not installed



RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.5.1 (02 November 2014)
-------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.5.1 is a minor update incorporating the changes described
below.

- hicup_deduplicator now accepts --threads as an argument




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.5.0 (01 October 2014)
-------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.5.0 is a major update incorporating the changes described 
below.

- HiCUP compatible with Bowtie2.

- To reduce mis-mapping, HiCUP no longer uses '—strata' as a parameter 
when aligning with Bowtie.

- Perl module GD::Graph is no longer a dependency since the pipeline 
now uses R to generate figures.

- The scripts ‘hicup’, ‘hicup_trunacter’ and ‘hicup_mapper’ all 
require file pairs as input. Such pairs should now be placed on 
adjacent lines in their respective configuration files. (Previous 
versions of HiCUP required paired files to be placed on the same line, 
separated using the pipe (‘|’) character. HiCUP still accepts filename 
pairs in this deprecated format.)

- Command line arguments can be used in conjunction with a 
configuration file. Parameters set using the command line will 
override those set using a configuration file.

- Fixed bug causing HiCUP only being able to process files in the 
current working directory.




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.4.2 (27 November 2013)
-------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.4.2 is a minor update incorporating the changes described 
below.

- Pipeline produces di-tag length (prior to filtering) distribution 
plots in the HTML document and as a separate GD::Graph line plot

- Pipeline produces an HTML report when following the double-digest 
protocol

- HTML file reports percentage unique di-tags following de-duplication 

- HiCUP version number and pipeline parameters are printed in the 
headers of the SAM/BAM files

- User can specify hi-c ligation sequences directly via hicup.conf

- Fixed bug causing HTML reports not to be written if a single sample 
did not pass completely through the pipeline

- Fixed bug preventing 'longest:' or 'shortest:' config option being 
left blank in hicup.conf




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.4.1 (23 September 2013)
--------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.4.1 is a minor update incorporating the changes described 
below.

- Fixed bug causing results from different datasets to become mixed in
the HTML report.

- Improved HTML report layout




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.4.0 (10 September 2013)
--------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.4.0 is a major update incorporating the changes described 
below.

- A di-tag is defined by each of its constituent reads and each read 
is now defined by 1) the position in the reference genome to which 
the first base of the sequence read (putative sonication cut site) 
map; and 2) the orientation of the sequence read with respect to the 
reference genome. The read end position is no longer considered.

- Fixed bug in hicup_deduplicator preventing it identifying all 
duplicates if the sequencing run was performed with a different number 
of cycles. 

- Added --nofill option to hicup_truncater (and consequently hicup) 
allowing users to specify that a fill-in of sticky ends was not 
performed. 

- Made slight adjustment to hicup_truncator to prevent division by 
zero errors when working out the %truncation rate.

- hicup_truncater now truncates upstream of the restriction enzyme 
recognition site, not at the restriction enzyme cut site.

- hicup_mapper now reports the number of reads that were too short to 
be sent to Bowtie. The mapping efficiency will refer to: 
(100 * unique alignments) / 
(reads too short to send to Bowtie + reads sent to Bowtie).

- hicup_filter now discriminates between same-fragment dangling ends 
and same-fragment internal. 

- HiCUP master script edited so the file processes all the reads in a 
file to determine FASTQ quality scores.

- Added a check in the pipeline to confirm the number of forward and 
reverse reads are the same in the FASTQ file pairs (some users appear 
to filter reads in some way prior passing to HiCUP).

- Users can now specify an output directory to which output files are 
written.

- All summary files now display the same datestamp.

- HiCUP sonication protocol now generates an HTML report summarising 
the results of each file processed.




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.3.0 (02 November 2012)
-------------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.3.0 is a major update incorporating the changes described 
below.

- hicup_sorter removed from the pipeline. Users should now 
de-multiplex samples using other software.

- The pipeline determines automatically the FASTQ format (e.g. Sanger) 
adopted if this was not specified by the user.  It may not always be 
possible to determine this unambiguously and in such circumstances the 
pipeline selects the most likely option.

- The pipeline will try to determine the path to Bowtie if this is not 
specified by the user. Also, fixed a bug in how HiCUP identifies the 
location of SAMtools.

- Improved how the pipeline checks Bowtie indices have been specified 
correctly by the user.




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.2.2 (03 August 2012)
-----------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.2.2 is a minor update adding the functionality described
below.

- The mapping process is now less memory intensive, with Bowtie 
--chunkmbs lowered from 1024 to 512. Also, reads shorter than 20bps 
are no longer passed to Bowtie.

- Fixed bug preventing HiCUP processing files in a separate folder 
from the hicup.conf configuration file.

- The hicup master script terminates immediately if another pipeline 
script dies. 




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.2.1 (19 July 2012)
---------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.2.1 is a minor update adding the functionality described
below.

- The hicup_filter script now calculates the number of di-tags whose 
alignment to the reference genome suggests they were created by a 
single restriction fragment circularizing and ligating to itself, and 
then following sonication forms a liner molecule containing the 
modified Hi-C restriction site. These di-tags were previously 
classified as 'Same Fragment' di-tags, but this category now comprises 
all di-tags in which both reads map to the same restriction fragment 
except those classified as derived from circularized molecules.

- The hicup_filter summary file now reports the number of di-tags 
falling within each category, not the percentage summary. 




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.2.0 (26 June 2012)
---------------------------------------------
HiCUP v0.2.0 is a major update providing extra functionality in 
addition to the removal of several bugs. The most significant changes 
are described below.

- Addition of a new script ('hicup_deduplicator') at the end of the 
pipeline for removing duplicate di-tags (most probably PCR artefacts). 
The script generates a text file summarising the results, along with a 
pie chart (*.png format) of the cis/trans ratio of di-tags present in 
the final dataset.

- hicup_mapper and hicup_pairer combined into a single script called 
'hicup_mapper'. In addition to reporting Bowtie mapping efficiencies, 
the script also reports the percentage read pairs in which both 
forward and reverse reads could be aligned to the reference genome.

- hicup_filter, when processing Hi-C data generated using the Hi-C 
sonication protocol, now rejects di-tags on the basis of size AFTER 
all other filters have been passed.

- hicup_filter produces a less verbose summary file and produces pie 
charts of the results (*.png format).

- hicup_filter modified so when following the sonication protocol it 
identifies and rejects di-tags containing re-ligated fragments, not 
simply those on adjacent fragments. It does this by checking that the 
fragments are adjacent (as before) and in the same orientation - which 
means the forward and reverse reads will be on opposite strands 
(+ and -).

- hicup_truncater now reports the average length of a truncated 
sequence.

- Fixed a bug causing hicup_digester to only process the last 
chromosome in a file containing multiple chromosomes.




RELEASE NOTES FOR HICUP V0.1.1
------------------------------

HiCUP v0.1.1 is an alpha release and as such is still a work in 
progress.

Although the core functionality of the program should all now be 
presentit is very much still a work in progress and you should bear 
this in mind when using the software.  Things may break and there may 
be bugs which will need to be resolved  Having said that, we are using
the software for real work so it should be useful in its current 
state.

The functionality of HiCUP is not yet complete.  As such we are keen 
to hear from other groups if they have ideas for useful functions 
which could be added.  We have initially developed the functions to 
support the types of analysis we require, but there are probably many 
other applications which could be supported by the core HiCUP 
framework.
